Uh, good morning everyone.
Good morning, sir. Good
Morning, sir. Good morning,
sir. Morning.
I'm having some trouble with electricity.
It is since morning, I'm not having any.
Okay. Still we'll try to finish the codes. Okay.
Like the, everything, my phone battery, it depends on like
how long it can last for the like, you know, uh,
giving services as a hotspot anyways.
Okay. Uh, so in the last class, uh,
last classes actually we did the thing that is, uh, uh,
first, uh, regression.
We learned that is a logistic
and linear in the latest stages we learned about the,
uh, the ry.
And uh, I hope you have also explored the random forest
as well as the other aspects of this random forest, uh,
thing that the NML method landings and all.
Have you gone through those?
Actually, I had a query on that one.
No sir. To be honest, myself, no,
because of exam today,
we're having exam, that is the reason.
Okay. Anyways, like, uh, being a like masters
and data science, yeah, you definitely need to explore
and have like a gain.
The knowledge is and not, because in simple method is one
of the like, you know, uh, uh, like, uh, you know,
that's a domain or you can say, uh, the part
of machine learning and deep learning where interviewers
or if you are dealing with someone
who is checking your knowledge,
they can ask you question on that one.
So it is a very interesting topic
and they like, uh, want to do like a confusion,
something within some methods and all,
and they'll be asking the
questions on the incidental methods.
So it's a very important topic in that aspect as well.
So, uh, another very important topic
that we'll actually cover today, that is, uh, uh,
support vector machine.
So You can say in top five questions,
if somebody is asking on the machine learning,
deep learning, they'll be starting, uh,
asking questions from this, uh, support vector machines.
Okay? So it is that important. Uh,
Okay, guess I need to minimize this one.
Uh, so, okay, I will go one
by one. So
In our previous classes we had a option that we used
to do the linear regression
or multi regression, all those things.
The idea was if the data is, uh, kind
of linearly supportable, fine.
So if that is the linearly supportable,
Let's just do it full screen.
Let's try,
Sorry, if you don't mind, can you just, uh,
briefly throw a light on a assemble level so
that when we were, uh, when we go through that one at least,
uh, some of the points will help us
See in assemble method what is happening.
You are having multiple trees, okay?
And you are, uh, dividing the data into multiple parts
and you are providing the data for each
of these in a random forest
or like, uh, some of the models will be having a ratio on
the little size, lesser amount of data.
Those are known as like weak learners.
Few of them are like, uh, you know, uh, strong learners
and you combine the data like segregate the data in such a
way and also the like, you know, multiple combinations
of the random forest in such a way.
Then you create MM mathies, you are combining multiple, uh,
you know, algorithms together
to make a decision addition to you understood.
You Apply multiple decision tree
that becomes random forest.
You combine random forest
and ry all of them together with the data segregating.
Uh, you provide 20% of the data for few of the, you know,
architecture, you provide 80% data of the few
of the architecture.
So combining Lee,
you are getting better results, something like that.
So that is like one of the concept of the ensemble method,
Okay, sir? Okay.
Okay. So see
The idea is,
Okay, see if
We are having a data, okay, I,
the data is linearly,
So We two classes of data, suppose
Then we can directly go for the linear regression
or the other sort of stop regression, okay?
In this case, A ZPM works a little better way, uh,
because it's having a idea.
This line, wherever they're putting either this
way it is segregating.
Either you can like put in this way, okay?
Or you can like put the, uh, you know,
segregating line in this way.
So multiple ways you can draw the line
to segregate the dataset, right?
So that is the idea of having a linear regression.
You are segregating the data with a line
and uh, you're basically classifying whether that is a red
or that is orange, something like that.
But in case of support vector, what you are having the idea
of like you are having the data, suppose you,
the data sets are there, okay?
So I'm drawing the red here,
okay?
So you draw this line such a way.
So another two lines you'll be drawing, okay?
I think boards and all these things
are way better than this.
You need to come up with some other strategies,
some touch screens, something like that.
Okay, fine. So the SVM works in a such a way.
You are like, uh, put the line that is there,
but you also give two more lines where you try to
measure this distance.
I suppose this is D one, okay?
This is D one and this is D two.
So this distance you are calculating of the
more imaginary lines or planes,
and these lines will be crossing through the, one of the,
you know, uh, elements of the, one of the classes.
So you see this imaging line is touching this point.
And also if you see this line is also touching one of the,
you know, other classes and you are basically measuring
these distances, D one and D two, they should be equal.
So on the middle you can set the main line of this origin.
Now the idea is if you can like, uh, you know,
plot this line in such a way instead of this one,
if you're plotting the line in this one,
okay, use another color.
Okay? So suppose you are,
Oh,
Suppose you are drawing this line.
Now if you do this, you know,
on other imaginary planes parallel
to the like main line, okay?
And this one, So this should be straight line, okay, uh,
sorry for my car, which turns wrong.
So whatever the distance you are, you'll be having here,
D one and D two dash supposed in these cases,
those will be lesser than these two.
So the idea is you have to maximize the d uh,
like this marginal planes distances in such a way
that you can classify the, you know, uh, different,
different classes and all.
So that is the idea we are having
in the support vector mission.
Not we are only like putting the line
to segregate the dataset.
Along with that one, we are making sure the data is fitted
in a such a way that is the distance
between this marginal planes are higher.
So dataset like, uh,
predicting whatever the elements you are having will be much
more, you know, efficient in that cases.
How Do I write this?
So this is V only approval for linearly or can apply
Yeah, linearly separate non sepal.
Both are applyable, like, we'll see how that goes, right?
Yeah, Yeah.
So now the idea is a powerful supervisor,
uh, machine learning algorithm.
The SM is it can do both of the things
that the regression you can do.
You can also do the classification.
So in, uh, your, uh, in a, uh, library
for your own need, whether
to have a like regression problem, problem you want to solve
or the classification model you want to solve,
you can import the SM regressor
or SVM classifier based upon your needs.
Okay? So many of the questions, uh,
in the interview those are asked, gimme some examples
of the, um, like the regression models
and the classification models.
So in the classification,
people generally say the SPM is one of the classifier.
So SPM is a classifier
and a regression based upon whatever you are choosing.
Fine. So the goal is
whenever you are having some linearly acceptable data,
you are giving the maximum, you know,
a difference between the margin.
Like instead of one line in the linear regression logic
regression, you are actually using three lines
and you are making sure in the middle line
and the like other marginal, uh, lines
or planes, whatever, having those are
having the maximum distance.
So in a way,
whatever the data will predict in the future will be having
much more efficiency accuracy compared
to the older models and all.
And another benefit of this one, if you are having a, like,
you know, uh, oh, just one second,
okay, so this is a, like a thing.
The creation of this idea is
now these are, we are calling lines in case
of two dimensional thing, right?
But when we are actually imagining the things in three
dimensional plane, those are called planes, not like, uh,
just like, you know, uh,
circle becomes a sphere in the 3D space, the line becomes a,
a plane in the three dimensional place.
So we generally call this hyperplane
and these whatever the, you know, main line we are drawing,
those are support pictures.
Now the idea is you want
to maximize everything that is there.
So that is always applicable for the linearly sal data.
Now what if you are having non uh, linearal data, right?
You just asked, you are having these kind of data where
if you draw any kind of line, okay?
So,
So if you draw any kind
of line anywhere you are will be hardly getting a
50% of accuracy.
You cannot segregate this blue from red with a, you know,
single line or like a multiple poly thing.
You cannot do that. So in that way, what you are having, uh,
like a few of the method we say in the SVM, uh,
that can like solve these issues.
So will we also understanding that respect, okay,
if you're having data, you are plotting,
you are seeing the accuracy,
you are not getting like 50, 60% in error.
So that is the problem of the non-linear data.
One of the very popular, uh, uh, you know, uh, example of
that one being if you have works from the data
that is a handwritten, you know, uh, uh,
data set which is already, you know, available publicly.
So that's a classification problem.
So multiple thousands
and thousands of like a has been written, B has been written
by different different people
and people generally try to import the data
and apply some kind of models and algorithm.
So if you've brought that data, you'll be able
to see the features,
whatever they're extracting from the data,
those are not linearly separable.
So we can solve those also with a few of the, you know,
tweaking of the SVM uh factor.
So the idea is, uh, okay,
will be actually explaining like, okay, uh,
so the advantages is you are having very high accuracy
and all compared to the like older models
and all for the classification, it works wonders, okay?
Uh, uh, memory efficiency uses a subset
of training points, uh, support vectors.
So in that way, but uh,
although it is like a memory efficient
and all it is computational very high, okay?
So computational it is very call like uh, you know,
intensive when you are dealing with a like a nels
where the data is not linearly reputable
or all the data is actually the uh, computed
and all re actually again a data set form.
Then you do the training and all.
So that kind of thing you're doing,
so you are giving the data,
it is actually doing some computation,
modifying the data in such a way.
So it is linearly separable again from nonlinear,
separable then you are, it is applying the training
and all uh, doing the training
and testing all those things, okay?
Uh, also if you're having like noise kind of data, um,
noisy data and all, so it is very much, you know, effective
because it is trying
to manipulate the whole data set into like a,
a different category and all and try to segregate.
So on that aspect,
whenever you are dealing with a data set which is having
some noises, outliers, you try to see
and like, you know, purify the data
before applying these models and all, Okay?
Uh, so example doing, so
whenever we are going for this like classification thing,
like image class, segregating different classes, uh,
image classification, uh, text mining, bioinformatics,
these kind of things where the SBM works one that along
with the like geo informatics based uh, algorithms
where we do the classification, uh, suppose uh,
you take a satellite imagery, you try to find out
what are the areas where the water bodies are present,
what are the areas where the like human
civilizations are present and all.
So for those kind of applications also SBM works wonder
and very good efficiency and
All, okay?
Now we'll be diving into this factor
that is the SVM connel and all. So how they
Go, Yeah, please
Sir, request to go to this slide number seven sir.
Uh, where we are told the pros and cons of the SVMs.
Hmm. So here you're saying about the high accuracy when
we have the high dimension space.
So we are comparing s VM with that, uh,
basic other things like we have that, uh, larger regression
with the spec of that we are saying it's a very
effective and high dimension space.
Yes. What we have seen in practical there, most
of the classes also have been taught that when you're going
for high dimension pay, the neural takes over
and they have the better uh,
performance than the conventional this thing, okay?
So in the way when you're saying
that high dimensional pay very effective,
we comparing to which models sir?
Okay, now let me give you one example.
In A and L what is happening?
You are having one input layer,
Okay? Uh,
Right somewhat
You Have input layer,
you have multiple hidden layer,
Uh, you are having the output layer
Fine. So these
are the things where you are trying
to say if you are having high dimensional data
and all, then you can directly go further an n fine in the a
NN the I input layer
and here in the layer you're mostly using
polynomial regression, right?
So why is equal equal to definitely this formula?
Yeah, so
fine.
So this might be a thing where
instead of this one you can replace this with SVM algorithm.
So what you can do, suppose you are actually trying to uh,
apply some kind A and n into some of the dataset.
Still you're not getting very high accuracy if the dataset
is not linearly separable instead of in the a NN you can,
you know, uh, combine this SVM along
with the a NN model in the hidden layers you can infuse this
algorithm so hybrid, you know,
and this way you can create and you'll get better result.
Okay? Okay, so I'll show you a few of the example.
So,
uh, see in this layer, whatever the input layer is there,
then applying the support vector, SVM,
then doing the calculations and finally getting the results.
So it is basically following the architecture of A
and N with the SVM.
Okay? So this also you can apply
if you are having some problem with A
and n, you are still not able to solve those issues,
fine, okay?
Also you can do the hybrid edition of things, few
of the layers you apply the SVM, few
of the layers you apply in and
or a few of the layers you apply the CN
and doing the combination to get a better results.
Yes please. Anybody else? So,
So I had some confusion.
Can you explain a bit in more detail like
how SVM is helpful in place of a, in the first layer
or say like how it's shown in the diagram?
Yeah, so in e each of this, you know,
this isn't like supposed uh, neural network
you are having on the left hand side mostly you are
inputting input data
and on the middle you are having multiple uh, you know,
computations you are doing mostly wise MX plus C
and all those things you are doing
and trying to manipulate the weights
and biases to fit the data
and data like output, which is like more relevant
to the input, okay?
And you're trying to like, uh, do the uh, back pro
for progression back ion again and again
and try to have a higher accuracy.
That is the idea of the whole A
and picture or deep learning picture.
Now in these cases where the hidden layers are there,
so in this hidden layers instead
of like using the Y equal MX plus C
and all, you can directly replace those things
with the SVM uh, layers or c uh, like other layers
or decentral layers, something like that.
So that freedom you're having when you choose the like
architecture of the deep learning models,
when you construct the layers, okay, you'll be having option
to choose which kind of layer you are choosing, okay?
So whether you are choosing SBM, whether choosing
or like a basic uh, you know uh, uh, the a n architecture
and all other CN architecture, you have those options in
that one, Okay?
In the later classes when we'll do, I'll show you fine,
Okay?
Thank S BM with this time do we have,
I'm able to find some images and all good images actually,
okay, anyways, fine.
Uh, let's just skip to that topic. We are
Never Here and there.
So that is the idea of having, you are having
I dimensional data and all
and you are trying to actually reduce the non non
linearly separable data,
then you can rely on the SVM kernels, uh,
that we will be diving into, right?
So the idea is
if you're having longs linearly separable data, okay then
how do you actually upload this one?
So we are in whenever actually you'll be applying the SVM,
okay, initiating the SVM in the, from the
and all, uh, in that one you'll be assigning one
parameter that is the kernel.
In that kernel you can either say linear kernel,
you can say polynomial kernel, you can say this RVF kernel
and based upon your needs you'll be applying these kernels.
Okay? So if the data is linearly separable,
then you can directly go for this linear kernel.
If it is data is not linearly separable either, you can go
for polynomial kernel or rrb F kernel.
So between these two for non-linearly separable data,
this RBF kernel works better.
Okay? So you're having three options
whenever they actually applying any SPM algorithm,
you can choose which kinda kernel you can choose.
So as an example, let's see here we are having, you know,
two classes, class A
and class B, where class A is being referred
with a X one X two hall supposed to attribute
that we are taking X one and X two.
So we are having 0 0 1, 1 1 minus one minus one one
minus one minus one.
And similarly for class B, that is blue category, okay?
So we are having 2, 2 2, comm two, something like that.
So this is the data we are having X one XX two data
and the final output being whether that is a class A
or class B, okay?
So this data meta format, you can see
it should look like this, fine,
you ignore this middle one, okay?
You only focus on this one.
So X one, X two, the other and the point X one, X two
and the class whether that is red or that is blue, fine.
So that is the dataset we are having Now from these dataset,
if you actually plot that into, you know, scatter plot
with the map plot clip, okay,
I have already included the code here
and once I executed the code, I got it output like this.
Now the problem is if you're having this output, you cannot
Uh, You cannot
linearly separate these data wherever you draw a line,
the red and blue,
those are actually not getting linearly acceptable.
So that is the problem we're dealing with.
Now how do, how do we solve it?
We can solve it with the uh, you know, this function.
Let's see, how does it work?
So the idea is
whenever they having these kind of data
where the dataset is not linearly acceptable,
you convert the data into higher dimension space.
Okay? So lower dimension
to higher dimension.
So this is the idea you have to follow.
Now this data, we are dealing with a two dimensional space.
Now we'll be converting into one dimensional higher space
that is three dimensional space.
Now one, you know, calculation equation,
let's just apply point we having zero, zero x, y
for this X one and X two or X or Y
and we're having this target variable as class.
Okay? Now we are doing some kind of calculations
of the AL equation.
We're applying fine. So this Z we are calculating
with the x squared plus Y square.
So new dimension we are including in this one.
So Z being x squared plus Y square.
So now if you calculate X, Y,
and Z, fine now for X zero
and Y zero Z calculation being zero.
Now these one, one we are calculating
value Z is equal to two.
So one comma minus one, we are calculating the value.
We are getting to some similarly,
but each of the element we are calculating the value
of Z based on this equation.
That's X score plus Y score J,
we are calculating now instead of two data, we are having x,
Y, and Z three dimension.
Now you just plot this one, X, Y, Z.
Now what will be the new data? Zero zero.
Initially it was there and we are also calculating the Z.
That is a zero. Similarly this one, one
and 2, 1, 1 2 similarly go on and on.
So you'll have multiple dataset and all
and based on these classes, now if I do the plotting
of this one, okay, this new coordinator of X, Y, z
with the category of red
and blue with a three you, no 3D scatter plott.
If you're doing in this one we're doing 3D scatter plott.
And basically we are getting the output here like this.
Now if you see the data X one, x two, x three R,
basically linearly simple due to the J axis
instead two axis where the data were
not linearly separable, okay?
And this one linearly, were not separable.
Now when you are including, okay, three dimensional space,
you are having one extra dimension.
Now you can segregate the data.
Now you can put a plane, okay, a sheet between this red
and blue, then you can do the classification.
That's the idea, okay?
We are moving lower dimension to high dimension.
Let, let's just see the, like a coding example,
it is also there, okay, we are taking the same data,
the converting into classes
and now when they're doing this, you know, applying this,
uh, sorry, S-V-S-B-C, that is the your
circuit plan import SVM uh, algorithm from the SVM,
either you can use the SVR or SVC.
So support vector classifiers or vector uh, regressor.
So in this case because red blue is there,
so classification we're doing,
so we are taking the model initialization,
sbm SVC kernel to linear.
So linear kernel, we are assigning fine
and we are fitting the data X comma y
and we are trying to get, you know,
whatever the output is there.
And another thing that is the RBF we are using in this one
R we are using for nonlinear data
and we're trying to see if the,
like on the nonlinear acceptable data, this one, okay,
how this, you know, linearal and AL actually working.
So based on these, okay, what is happening?
So this, uh, sb, this one
and RBF we tried
and we found out the like linear connel,
we are having almost like 50% of accuracy around that one.
And on the RBF, if you're applying,
this is the a hundred percent
that is the outcome we are getting fine.
This is, uh, uh, any questions you were having sir? Why not?
Uh, polynomial, uh, kernel
polynomial will be working almost similarly
to the RRB F kernel, but rrb F kernel is much more like,
you know, better in terms
of like three options you're having,
but R-B-R-B-F generally works better if the data is not
linear, reputable, and if it is linear directly go
for less computation thing, that is the, uh,
this one linear kernel you can try from your end.
There's no issue. So I'll show you the one by one, uh,
the code I'll execute.
What is the difference between this, uh, linear
and uh, RBF
Linear and RB is linear.
When your data is directly linearly separable
in this one when we are dealing
with this kind of data, okay?
So it is with the line you can, uh,
segregate the dataset, right?
With the line you are segregating the dataset.
So in those cases you can directly apply the linear con.
You don't need to do like heavy computation for
that one, okay?
But the dataset, suppose this one
red blue classes fine.
Similarly, we have this inclination in our,
you know, code as well.
We are having the data where you cannot
have a linear line separating or segregating the classes.
Then we do apply this rrb kernel where this, you know,
two dimensional space is converted into three dimensional
space, one extra dimension we're adding
and in such equation that these data are segregated,
that is the idea and instead of line we are using the plane
sheet because line in two dimension in
or two three dimension becomes to a like a, you know, plane
that is the iPlan or sheet we are talking about.
So segregating in that way,
Okay?
Yeah. So I, I think it is clear,
Excuse me sir, the nel part you mentioned it is
mathematical function, right?
Yes, but um, like, uh, I mean unable to uh, visualize
or understand that sir, if you can explain
that part alone. P,
Okay, fine.
So suppose you are having a dataset A and B.
Okay, so not A
and B suppose let's just go the simpler formula.
Let me first, uh, let problem, then I'll be able
to explain it much better.
Okay? So we are having this data suppose X and Y
and our target variable is class clear.
Now this dataset we are having this X
and Y should be representing the class.
Okay? Now you plot this one, okay?
In a scatter plot and trying to see with this, you know, x
and Y is the class is segregated, you know,
in ways that like I can put a line
and I can do a classification thing, right?
Whether that's linear education and all.
So it simply did what? Okay?
Uh, now what about the data you had?
So class and class B, you segregated the data 0, 0 1, 1, uh,
one comma minus one minus one comma,
one minus one comma minus one.
So this the data you are having, okay,
so these are representing your red, okay?
Now these data, these are like no representing the class B,
the blue that is two, two minus two, something like that.
And you do the scatter plot of these these things, okay?
This, what about the, you know, uh,
coordinators you're having
and you are like plotting the class along with that one.
After plotting that one, you found out that okay,
my data is there
and as such a manner it is plotted that I cannot, you know,
assign any lines into that one.
So, okay, now you are having these data.
Now the idea is you want to do the classification, okay?
And you want to segregate the class and class B mm scale.
The main thing is we will applying some kinda lines will be
drawing some lines whether there or this one
or maybe this one or maybe this one.
So in any way put the lines you are not actually segregating
the red and blue like we used
to do in this kind of scenario, right?
Yes sir. Just, yeah.
So here you can see
with the single line we are able
to differentiate the classes, okay?
But in case of this thing, we are not able
to segregate the different classes with this one.
Hmm. Now what we'll do will do some kind
of mathematical equation will do to actually, you know,
whatever the data you are having the data will be converting
into higher dimension, okay?
Mm-hmm So instead of two dimensional,
you'll be converting data into three dimension
and you will try to actually, you know, make some kind
of separation between the classes.
That is the goal we are having.
Now for doing that, we are doing this kind of square thing.
Either you can go for the queue, you can go for the,
like a part of four to the part four
and five, something like that.
Based upon new needs you can do, you know much of this
segregation with this, you know, uh,
potentially whatever the like a multifold
of the value we are having.
So in this one, this 0, 0 1 1, something like the data,
initial data we had
with the classes data were not acceptable.
Now we are including another dimension Z. Okay?
With that Z, X, Y
and Z, what we're doing, we are trying
to create a new coordinate instead of zero zero.
Now we'll be having 0, 0, 0 for the red instead of one,
one we'll have for red 1, 1 2 instead of
one minus one we'll be having one minus one, come on two,
the Z value are pending.
Mm-hmm. So these kind
of whatever the equation we have from this, you know,
equation the of the Z.
Now again, we'll be doing the plotting and all.
So now if I do the plotting, okay, let me do one thing
that I think will be very much helpful.
What is that?
Uh, what are the libraries we use generally
for plotting 3D uh, properly?
Yeah, C one mat
plot, mat plot
Plotly, C one corrective
little canvas mode.
C one is also interactive, right?
So now you can see the plot.
Okay, we are having a segregation
between like initially was initially if you see
the data was like this.
Now you cannot like segregate the data,
you cannot segregate the data with line.
Now you include the Z access.
Now you are somehow with some equations you are able
to segregate the dataset, the classes.
Now you have put a claim in this one, okay?
A sheet, suppose you are putting this one uh, pin, pin,
Pin, yeah.
In this one. So a sheet you are putting
the two dimensional in a line, two dimensional space.
Now you'll be able to segregate the dataset
between the classes you're getting the like magic
of this equation or the algorithm.
Yes sir. But one question I have is like kernel is uh,
how we are using kernel here. The kernel is
The kernel. The idea
of the kernel is
whenever you're applying the kernel initially the
data is manipulated.
Okay? What about the data you're feeding for the training
that is getting manipulated
and new set of data has been created
and on the base of that data
the models are trained
and tested. Getting my
Okay. Okay.
So any of the algorithms you take initially give the data
based on the data they will train
and they will give you the testing results
and everything I, accuracy,
prediction, whatever you want to do.
I will go up data and it'll do the prediction, sorry,
training then give you the results.
SVM does what? SVM modifies the data according to its need.
If you are using the RBF connel, all this uh, poly nel fine
data manipulate category,
it'll convert the data into high dimension
so it can like segregate the classes.
If it is nonlinearly separable,
then it'll apply the algorithm
for training and testing purpose.
Hmm. Okay.
So one extra stage it is uh, going, that is why it is uh,
heavily like computation wise it is higher.
Okay. Okay. I hope you got it.
Yes sir. Okay. Okay. Okay, sir.
Sir. Uh, further to add on sir, uh, sir, like when you see
that the data point, uh, like we able to understand
that this is not linear acceptable,
that's why we are not going for a linear function.
Mm-hmm Then we went for a polymer function Z equal
to X square plus Y square.
So this, uh, this is also we came to know
because of the representation of the data, like mm-hmm
we want to, if we can see it,
if we just tilt this as, mm-hmm.
So here we went for this equation
because it just like we want to create a kind
of a subtle kind of thing
or kind of thing
where we can able clearly take it into higher dimension
and then we can able to create a contour.
Yes. Yes. And then we can create this thing. Yes.
So now when you, in your example, you know taken this,
when you are uh, demo of uh, this python you have taken RBF,
so in that RBF
what mathematical function is used sir? So that I won
Understand, okay. And RDBF
is uh, like also you, the RDBF thing is what?
Uh, okay.
Generally the equation is, why is it called to this,
this Y pose that is wait and buys pose
plus, sorry,
X plus C.
This is the formula we are using.
If you're having multiple Xs X one, X two, X three,
so you're biting down in a such way this one,
so based on this you know, uh,
equation you are doing the transfer uh, applications
of this one uh, metricses, then you are getting the value
of Y and based on that you are going forward
with the like calculation of this in a higher dimension
and all you are already having this whatever the X
one, X two hal, suppose there's the X one,
Okay then plus
W transpose
stick plus
X two. Suppose this is the
thing we are having X one and X two
or X in this case,
This one And you're
calculating the Z valve.
So you are applying this formula
actually for this particular
Equation. Okay?
And you can also go for this kind equations.
So the idea is you are introducing a new dimension where
you are actually uh, you know, able to segregate the data
with a sheet and all,
Uh, yes sir. I
that I understand sir, like here where you go for uh,
concentrate or parable kind of function which you used,
where we are able to transform
that data from one dimension to another dimension.
Mm-hmm And then accordingly we are able to separate,
separate that uh, data points.
Mm-hmm. So that I'm able
to understand using a paranormal function sir.
So I just want to know how we are doing the same separation
using uh, radial based function
Radial for that one what Applied?
Yes. Yeah, RRB F what function is applying
because when you saw for a paranormal zedi could do
we get a co circuit and
accordingly we can able to take in high dimension we can
have a plane which are able to cut both the
sufficient we can able to have a clear boundary decision.
So but for rrb f how we, what is the thing it is applied so
that I want to understand how we get that data
Yeah. In r
to see that's one example I can go through that is the,
You know, This this situation we are having exponential
of um, this the output I guess
to see huh gamma this is one value based on
that we are actually using or segregating the data.
So suppose in the code as well, if you see
whenever we are actually uh, you know,
initializing the equation
Just
You, so like we are assigning a gamma value
that is the auto in here
I With a BF auto value
of the gamma is cuttings
There
on this one.
So gamma is auto, al is RPF.
So okay, so in this one you can see the equation is
something like this that is being done.
Okay? One gamma variable is there along with that one,
this X one and XO like whatever the other variable is there,
Okay? Uh,
mode of squad and all.
So aqui function that is being exuded,
So For one example defines a reach of a single point
and sees the penalty for misclassification.
We are also adding C somewhere.
Okay? Similar if two points are very close,
the distance near zero K KX is close is one high simulated
two points are very far, the distance is large
decay towards zero, low similarities.
So they are finding out some of the like, you know,
between the classes they find the, like
what are whatever the like, uh, distance and,
and all based on that they do the calculations.
So I have to go through also dig deeper in this one I guess
for my aspect also.
Okay? Okay, sir? Yeah, so
Whenever you are having a data, something like that,
okay, now let's just go
And do this other things.
Do the copy the code from here.
Okay, now the same okay, on on the same data set.
Okay, This red
and blue we are trying to apply both of the algorithm.
We'll try to find whatever the accuracy
with the RDVF kernel, okay?
Along with this linear regress linear kernel of the SPM
that we'll try to apply In this case we know the data set is
not linearly, you know, separated.
So we are having these kinda accuracies.
So for linear AL with SB M, we are getting accuracy of 55
because you cannot draw a line on that one
with the rrb F we are accuracy having a hundred
percent that is this thing.
So RRB F is doing this kind of some, you know, uh, pattern,
uh, you can plot like how this kernel RBF bundle is trying
to segregate the dataset from one class to another class.
Sir, in this can we have even polynomial sir can see
how much is the polynomial with respect to alvia?
Because when you see the data points
We See instead of suppose linear,
we we apply polynomial,
It's this Polynomial polynomial,
Okay?
SVM
Maybe polly
Say
Con.
So catalyst for poly, yes.
Okay, And this one also we are getting 55 only.
So nothing change we are seeing in this
poly, this one.
So here we have to six linear,
which we are given here the score
that I think we have to change.
No, I don't think like even the model name
is linear doesn't matter.
Okay? Uh, because this is a variable
or you can say, uh, object
Understand. Yes, yes, yes.
Whatever we are assigning here, that will be
Any other things we need to do.
Cornell poly degree, okay?
Other parameters are There we need to include.
So here, degree bit two, no sir, Z code vice, well,
Ah, For poly also we are getting one
because there's a like much simpler data in that compared
to like, you know, if you're having very,
uh, complex data and all.
Yes sir.
Yeah. Okay, I'll,
Uh, conclude the class then.
Excuse Me sir. Sorry if you're having
Any questions. And now please
Yes sir, could you please go to the python course, sir?
That, uh, I have uh, one doubt in the code, sir.
Okay, You sir,
I cannot see the code.
Ah, yeah, so in this a little bit down sir.
No, no, no, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Here, here, yes sir.
So in the visualizer RRVF decision boundary, right? Uh,
Uh, okay, okay,
So here actually, uh, like
minus one x what we are trying to do here,
sir, this part,
So it, it is a, basically you are, uh, giving the like,
uh, you know, segregation of the like, uh,
blue and red, those things,
Yes sir. But uh,
yeah, X of you start
with colon like, uh,
Co that, that is the like, you know, uh, uh, uh, that is,
uh, what do we say that I'm for forgetting the term.
Uh, uh,
whenever you are having like a data on multidi dimension,
if you're on to like a, you know, uh, divide
and those kind of things, then we use this kind of colons.
So colons means like every data you are not using in the
first no dimension,
but on the second dimension,
comma zero means you are selecting only the first value.
Okay? Yeah. Okay, sir. Got it. Thank So you
Slicing having, if you're having
Slicing operations.
Yeah, slicing, yeah, Slicing.
So if you're having this issue and all like with this column
and all how you are, like, you know,
if you're having multi-dimensional uh, uh, data frame
and all, how do you select some of the columns?
You have the columns in
between on the last or the first columns.
You, you should go once through this, uh, the data frame,
slicing and dicing, those kind of things.
How these are done.
Yes sir. Thanks. Yeah, yeah.
Okay. And I just,
One thing we have noticed most of the ies,
which have been used along with the neural network,
they all go for the soft max function, sir?
Yes. Um, made via CNN
or even when we been taught in the MLP in the past sim.
So there also we have the transform architecture.
So there is, we all have the output.
Uh, classical is always a soft max function. Yeah.
Unless we have seen word SVM, sir,
Uh, the soft max is like a activation function,
Softmax classifier, basically how
Classifier, so like activation function in the last layer
of your hidden, like
whenever they are talking about the hidden, uh,
layers last layer
whenever having, if you are dealing
with a classification problem,
okay, then you do what you use the softness function
or the last layer of the hidden layer,
then you get the output.
So it is basically categorizing the, each of the, you know,
how many functions you're having with the softner function
and in case of like you are having regression
and all, basically we go
with the other functions instead of the softmax.
So suppose, uh, we can pass through with the normal one, uh,
that is the like, uh, um, le uh,
linear, I guess, uh, that one.
So other sort of whatever
the, you know, functions are there.
Uh, instead of softmax, we can go through those for the,
you know, uh, segregating the class, uh, regression problems
and the soft math, we mostly go for the hidden layer,
last layer for the output
and in between mostly we rely on this.
So instead of soft math,
can we use this SVM class pair processor?
We can change that thing. Yeah. Yeah.
We get all the second m er also
Activation function as A SBM,
I don't think that is allowed.
These are like output is, oh yeah,
output is already calculated.
Okay. Uh, calculated in the neuron. Okay.
So whatever the values are there already calculated,
then you are modifying the value
with this then forwarding it to your next node.
So what about the calculation you're doing here in
the neuron here?
You can replace with the SBM?
Yes. So like I have the, yes sir, I have the flatten layer
where I'm doing the drawing of the flatten layer.
I can replace that flatten layer block
with the S assume M classifier
and then I can go for output. That I can
Do, yes, you can do that,
or you can use this SVM in the first layer itself.
Okay. Then, then, then for like, followed
by like other, uh, you know, whatever the layers are there,
you can use this like, uh, in and architecture
or even the SB architecture, like again
and again, those kind of things you can do.
Okay? So again, suppose here you might be using the
basic A and here
or the TM layer again, you can use to followed
by another layer, another layer.
And finally you are getting the output here, you can do this
fine.
Okay? Yes.
So afternoon session will be on the same
topic. Practice, yeah,
On the SBM will be Okay.
Okay, then, uh, have a good day.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Yes, thank you.
Uh, sir, uh, just a question like, um,
since from a week I am in continuous traveling,
so last week assignment I have not done, can I?
It's even if you deduct mark, I can do it. Submit, sir.
Uh, you submitted, so suppose to seven days or,
or like a time window, it is there if you like, I'll ask TA
to actually open those up.
If you are submitting late, we'll deduct some marks,
but we'll consider it. Don't worry.
Yeah. Just to show like I want to do
and submit it so that even if you deduct the marks,
No, no. We'll give
you the marks a little bit.
Direction will be there, but the marks will be given.
Thank you, sir. Actually, um, the, the due date is, uh,
10th 12:00 AM uh, we discussed this during the, uh,
campus in and, uh, to set the date towards the end
of the day and not the beginning of the day. Okay?
Okay. Okay, fine. We'll do that.
Uh, another thing, uh, uh,
next week we'll be having this, uh, grade lab
And it'll cover until this session, uh,
The last three, uh, classes.
That is the regression, uh, both of the regression.
Uh, then we are ha we had that one. Uh, random forest.
Random forest along with this one, SPM,
So, so, so next we won't be having the class,
Right? No,
no, no. We'll be directly having that uh, session.
Sure, sir. And sir, if possible,
could we know the, you know, grades for previous assignments
so that we can improve further the further
coming assignments?
See, uh, what is going on, uh, like on the basis
of the assignment, we're not very much alone, uh,
seeing like, uh, what people
are doing, how much they're doing.
So we are generally giving the full marks that is the like,
uh, you know, procedure we are falling for the graded lab.
We are going into a little bit deeper.
So we are also, uh, going for this, you know, uh, checking
of the PLAs on all AI plug
and all, if they're like, uh, been copied from so sources
and all, or totally generated from the charge,
GP Gini, something like that.
On the basis of, uh, this graded lab, we are doing like a,
a little bit, you know, more leverage thing for the checking
and for the assignments and all.
We are not, uh, into that much like a, you know,
marks are very much deductive compared to this and that
because whatever assignments you're providing,
you are getting the results done.
That is the thing that is the target of the assignment.
So generally full marks are given on that one,
but for the grade lab, some discrepancy will be there.
Some like, you know, how the output
and everything has been formatted, all those things.
So marks will be dependent upon that on the grade lab.
You should focus more. That will be my session instead
of like as assignments.
Okay. Okay, sir. One small out search
for the graded lab, like which format you are expecting.
Like we have to give, uh, the explanations for each
and every line or, uh,
which format we are following irrespective of Python
or Java, whatever the programming language.
What is the concept we have followed?
How we derived each and every line?
Like what is the format you are expecting, sir? Generally,
Generally it should be like a little bit on the, you know,
whatever the problems has been given, you should be able
to understand, uh, construct like a, you know, line
by line answers if comments are possible in the code.
You also introduce the, uh, comments,
the outputs snip pattern on each of the, like, you know,
if you're doing some kind r
or Python based programming with, uh, like, you know, the
IDs like, uh, collab
or jupyter, the line line, my line codes, your output.
Sometimes you're getting, sometimes you're not getting,
if you're getting out you can like, uh, you know, uh,
crop the snippet pattern paste those, this there.
Uh, so you'll have a basically manual kind
of thing, uh, based on the problem.
So, and a constructive device.
And you can also include some of the, you know,
theoretical aspect if you are liking.
So if, if this is a problem, what you have understood
and what are the things needs to be done for,
like solving the issue, you can like introduce that factor
as a, like a small, you know, introductory phase
or paragraphs you can include then followed by the codes
and their explanations and the, uh, snippets, uh,
or the screenshots and all.
Then you can compile those.
Okay. Uh, uh,
after writing the,
like the deriving the complete code in collab, like, uh,
we have to uh, like, uh, base it in the Word document
and we have to, uh, write it in the Word document
or we can we write, you can, you can
Name straight up snippet of the code
or like screenshot of the code.
You paste the code there. Okay? Okay.
You paste the code along with the pasting the code.
You also like give the, give the screenshot of the output,
Sir. Uh, rather
than pasting the code and output
and the word document, we currently what we are following is
that we're directly uploading the IP y and B file.
So in that only we are, uh, before
We in, We run on the code
Don to choose or write some of the things in.
Yes, yes. We have the markdowns.
So we are trying to write the explanations there.
Yeah, you can also do that.
That is, that would be just about it.
So that should be fine, right, sir? Yeah, yeah,
Yeah. You can do it
as long as it, we are able
to like open it up and check it.
Yeah, yeah. Or
You can do what instead of like I-P-U-N-B file,
you are uploading, just do a control p, you print the file
or pdf, save it in the pdf f then upload it.
It'll be better for us also.
Okay? Okay. And save It with your role number.
Sure, sir. Or we can upload both of them just
for your checking notes.
Yeah, we'll upload both PDF and the code
IPNV file. Yeah, yeah,
Yeah. So
this line Mm-hmm.
Uh, sir, last, uh, segment, uh, segment five,
they have put in as today 12 as the cutoff time. So
No, will we including the like end of the day from
to like 11 59, 9
Should be, if you, if you can tell us, tell them to extend
I'll them to actually modify that one worry
On sir.
Yeah.
Okay. Then I'll be seeing you. Uh,
Uh, sorry to just, just the last question,
and this might be a bit, uh, no low level question,
but just I'd like to put forth, sir,
regarding the explanation.
Mm-hmm. Uh, I've actually had it print statements
and for each execution, for each loop,
it prints the, you know, steps.
Mm-hmm. So instead of adding explanation,
I've gone through like that.
So is that also accepted or is
Yeah, it is. See,
there is no hard rule.
The thing is that it is not like that we are expecting you
to follow some kind of like patterns
and all you are having your freedom to do
or you know, express your way of learning
and all that is that is welcome.
That is, we have no issue around that one.
The criteria should be you should be able
to understand the things and all,
and we have to check in such a way that I know
that you have understood, not copied everything from the,
you know, internet and all, and you have just submitted
for the sake of it, that that is the goal.
Like you should learn, like take
something out of the course.
That is the idea we are having.
It's not like, uh, okay, you follow this, you follow that,
you hard rule that is there.
No, I'm not actually supportive that one I am supportive
that thing that I should be able to like judge someone
that they have gained some knowledge or not.
Okay. Okay, sir. Done. Okay. Thank you sir. Yeah, yeah.
Okay. I guess I'll close the session.
Yeah. Uh, so, so sorry, one more question. Yeah.
So for the normal assignments that we are submitting, uh,
like non-graded assignments, yes, those also do we need
to submit the PDF
or just the I-P-Y-N-B file is enough
till now we just submitted the IPY and see
When whenever you are creating the IPNB file,
you also like generate the pdf f and submit it that way.
Okay. Okay. Like PS are much more easier to check
whenever we are having a hundred, 200 PDFs.
Mm, yes. It is easier to like, uh, check IPNB 200
of IPNB files.
Yeah. It'll also like, you know,
create a problem in our systems also.
That's true sir. But till now we, uh, since we submitted,
that's accepted, right?
Yeah. Don't worry on that. Okay? Yeah. Thank you sir.